So welcome to Fable Farmstead.
Can you tell me a little bit
about yourselves, how you came here
and how you learned
about pivots on your land?
Sure. My name is Laura.
My name is Winslow.
And we had a farm about 20 minutes
from here that we outgrew.
So we moved to Freeport.
In 2020,
we bought this place and we found out
just as we were moving up
here, moving farms up here, that our field
had had sludge
spread on them in the early 90s,
that it's devastating.
You know, as I grew up,
Dairy Farm was never something
we had to think about as kids.
And, yeah, we're raising a family here.
And so we weren't sure how
that was going to affect our decision
to continue farming.
If we could farm where remediation was
going to look like, if that was possible.
That was just terrible, actually.
And what are you hoping to do now?
That, you know, where
there might be on your land?
Well, luckily, we found out that we had
contamination in our field
before we started farming here.
So we were able to adjust our plan,
as to where the crops would be grown.
So we've done extensive testing,
which we paid for out of pocket,
to all of our fields
and where we have clean soil results.
That's where we've been growing our crop.
We did a test, a trial plot as well,
to test the actual plant matter.
So we know that the food
that's coming out of that field is safe.
So moving forward,
we will only be planting where we know it
is safe for us to do so.
We're also partnering with institutions
to do people's,
remediation research
because we want to be part of the problem.
Solution.
And yeah, this is a big problem.
And we want to try
to get rid of it. Great.
And what would you say to students
first learning about fast
for the first time?
It's everywhere.
We didn't realize how ubiquitous
it was in our world and our environment.
It's on everything, basically,
that we touch or eat or use.
And that's really scary because
you never really know how much is then
going into your body.
You can't really avoid it.
But when you know
that there is contamination, when you know
that there is something wrong,
at least you can do your best to avoid it.
Great. Well, thank you so much.
We really appreciate it.